
The installer is a collection of Puppet modules, which have a large number of parameters available to customize the configuration.  Parameters can be set by running `foreman-installer` with arguments, e.g. `--foreman-initial-admin-password`, changing settings in interactive mode or by setting up an answers file.

The precedence for settings is for those set by arguments to foreman-installer or interactive mode, then the answers file, then the Puppet manifest defaults.

#### foreman-installer arguments

Every parameter available in the installer can be set using command line arguments to `foreman-installer`.  Run `foreman-installer --help` for most options, or `foreman-installer --full-help` for a list of every available option.

When running the installer, all arguments passed on the command line will be persisted by default to `/etc/foreman-installer/scenarios.d/foreman-answers.yaml` and used automatically on subsequent runs, without needing to specify those arguments again.  This persistence can be disabled with the `-b` option.

#### Interactive mode

The installer also provides a text driven interface to customize configuration parameters, and can be run by executing:

{% highlight bash %}
foreman-installer -i
{% endhighlight %}

#### Plugins and compute resources

The installer contains a number of high level modules (e.g. "foreman", "puppet") and additionally a number of smaller modules for additional functionality, such as plugins and compute resource support.  These can be added with the "--enable" switches, or the default options can be disabled with "--no-enable" switches.

More information about compute resources can be found in the [Compute Resources section](/manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#5.2ComputeResources) and plugins in the [Plugins section](/manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#6.Plugins).

<!-- Generated based on `foreman-installer -h | grep enable-` -->
{% include manuals/{{page.version}}/3.2.2_installer_options-help.md %}

#### Available options

**Note:** When you can specify a hash, you need to specify each option individually to `foreman-installer`.

For example the hash `{show_diff => true, stringify_facts => false}` for `--puppet-server-additional-settings` becomes `--puppet-server-additional-settings=show_diff:true --puppet-server-additional-settings=stringify_facts:false`.

<!-- Generated with:
kafo-export-params -c /etc/foreman-installer/scenarios.d/foreman.yaml -f html
-->
{% include manuals/{{page.version}}/3.2.2_installer_options-params.md %}

#### Answers file

The answers file describes the classes that will be applied to the host to
install Foreman, along with their parameters.  The foreman-installer package stores it at `/etc/foreman-installer/scenarios.d/foreman-answers.yaml`.  By default, the *all-in-one* setup will include Foreman, a puppetmaster, Puppet agent, and the Smart Proxy:

{% highlight yaml %}
---
foreman: true
foreman_proxy: true
puppet:
  server: true
{% endhighlight %}

Other examples are given in the next section, or `/usr/share/foreman-installer/README.md`.

#### Advanced module configuration

Additional configuration options can be given in `/etc/foreman-installer/custom-hiera.yaml` for some of the Puppet modules that are used internally by Foreman installer. The contents of this file will be passed to Hiera during the Foreman installer execution so can set class parameters for other modules such as `apache`, `mysql`, and `postgresql`.

For example, the `TraceEnable` option may be controlled by disabling the `apache::trace_enable` parameter in this file:

{% highlight yaml %}
apache::trace_enable: Off
{% endhighlight %}

Please note that the parameters used by these modules may change between versions of Foreman, so it's important to check the versions in use and the appropriate module documentation or source code when editing this configuration file. Modifications cannot be supported or migrated by Foreman.
